Trust and compliance: Security section (#104)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/trust/security/disclosure.md

# Responsible disclosure policy

!!! Warning

    If you discover a vulnerability with our software or server systems, please report it to us in private.

>     Do not to attempt to harm our users, customer's data or our system's availability when looking for vulneratbilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do not to attempt to harm our users, customer's data or our system's availability when looking for vulnerabilities.
```

    Please contact us at [security@pretix.eu](mailto:security@pretix.eu) with full details and steps to reproduce and allow reasonable time for us to resolve the issue before publishing your findings.
    If you wish to encrypt your email, you can use our [GPG key](https://pretix.eu/.well-known/security@pretix.eu.asc).

## Scope

> The following products and services are within the scope for our disclosure process:

Reviewer: Es wäre sinnvoll, von all diesen Repos und Webseiten auch hierher zu verlinken

Author: Guter Punkt, ja, aber offensichtlich erst ein post-merge todo ;)

Author: Ich hab von den großen Repos jetzt verlinkt. Alle 100 Plugins hab ich nicht die Nerven für, und auf den Websites ist es teilweise auch schwierig unterzubringen. Aber auf pretix.eu findet man es ja gut über die Security-Seite und das ist eigentlich das wichtigste.

*   The open source projects [python-fints](https://github.com/raphaelm/python-fints), [python-sepaxml](https://github.com/raphaelm/python-sepaxml), [django-scopes](https://github.com/raphaelm/django-scopes), [django-i18nfield](https://github.com/raphaelm/django-i18nfield), and [django-hierarkey](https://github.com/raphaelm/django-hierarkey).
*   Proprietary pretix plugins sold as part of our pretix Enterprise offering
*   The following websites and services:
    *   https://pretix.eu
    *   https://marketplace.pretix.eu
    *   https://pretixstatus.com
    *   https://cdn.pretix.space
    *   https://\*.venueless.events
    *   https://vnls.io
*   The Android and iOS apps pretixSCAN, pretixPRINT, pretixPOS, pretixLEAD, and pretix Marketplace Client.
*   The Desktop and Server applications pretixSCAN, pretixSCAN Proxy, pretixKIOSK, pretixTURNSTILE.

We are also happy to receive reports for all other security issues regarding our infrastructure.

> However, if they affect software not created by us, we will pass the reports on to the respective software vendor and will not be able to issue bug bounties or CVE numbers.

Reviewer: Bieten wir für unsere eigenen Projekte Bug Bounties und CVE-Zahlen an? Wenn ja, dann sollten wir das explizit machen (in diesem Abschnitt hier auf die nächsten beiden verlinken)

## CVE Numbering Authority

rami.io GmbH has been authorized by the CVE Program as a CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) for any vulnerabilities in our own products.
CNAs are organizations responsible for the regular assignment of CVE IDs to vulnerabilities, and for creating and publishing information about the vulnerability in the associated CVE Record.
Our CNA assigns CVE numbers only for the products and services listed above.

A CVE ID will be issued by us only if all of the following conditions are met:

*   The issue can be reproduced by us and is confirmed to have a security impact.
*   Remediation of the issue might require action by users of the software, such as installing a patch.
*   The affected software version is not end of life.

## Disclosure

Security incidents concerning products under the pretix brand are announced on the pretix [security page](https://pretix.eu/about/en/security) and in the pretix [newsletter](https://pretix.eu/about/en/blog/).

## Bug Bounties

> We're not large enough to run a formal bug bounty program. If you find a serious vulnerability in our service, we will find a way to show our gratitude.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rami.io GmbH is not a large enough company to run a formal bug bounty program. 
If you find a serious vulnerability in our service, we will find a way to show our gratitude.
```

Finde es schwierig, hier so eine vage Aussage zu treffen. Das kann alles von einer Tafel Schokolade bis hin zu horrenden Geldmengen sein und eröffnet im Zweifelsfall die Tür für Erpressung

Author: Die Range geht auch von einem Sticker bis zu (überschaubaren) Geldmengen. Erpressung ist eine Straftat, egal was wir hier schreiben, da hätte ich nicht so Sorge vor. Die "bounty oder ich sags dir nicht"-kiddies, die meist eh nichts gefunden haben, haben wir so oder so. Wenn die diesen Text überhaupt lesen würden wäre schon genug gewonnen…

We have, on occasion, issued monetary bug bounties for issues of high severity in our core services.

> We consider an issue to have a high or critical severity if it allows the extraction of non-trivial confidential data, privilege escalation, authentication bypass, account takeover, or XSS in combination with a CSP bypass possibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We consider an issue to have a high or critical severity if it allows the extraction of non-trivial confidential data, privilege escalation, authentication bypass, account takeover, or cross-site scripting in combination with a possibility of bypassing our content security policy. 
```

> We do not consider issues to have a high or critical severity that provide DoS or brute force attack vectors, can only be exploited in combination with significant other security flaws that have not been found, logic bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not consider issues to have a high or critical severity that provide DoS or brute force attack vectors, can only be exploited in combination with significant other security flaws that have not been found, or issues that are mere logic bugs.
```

> We do not issue bounties for any reports referring to best practices around HTTP headers, email headers, SPF/DKIM/DMARC records, TLS ciphers, etc.

Reviewer: Als Technical Writer würde ich sagen, diese Abkürzungen müssen alle einmal aufgeschlüsselt werden – als Mensch verstehe ich, dass das wahrscheinlich nur Leute lesen, die die Begriffe alle im Schlaf kennen. Bin unentschlossen.

Author: Stattdessen Wikipedia verlinkungen?

## Rules

> If you report a security issue in our services to us in private without taking actions that attempt to harm our users, confidentiality of our customer's data or availability of our systems, we will treat your report properly and will not be threatening you with legal action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report a security issue in our services to us in private. 
We will treat your report appropriately.  
Do not take any actions that attempt to harm our users, confidentiality of our customer's data or availability of our systems. 
If you do any of these things, we will be forced to take legal action against you. 
```

Author: Da hast du die Kernaussage "wir sind keine Arschlöcher, die dir mit dem Anwalt drohen, wenn du dich mit einer Sicherheitslücke an uns wendest" gestrichen und durch "wenn du folgendes machst, werden wir dich verklagen" ersetzt. Das ist das Gegenteil der Tonalität, die hier angestrebt ist.
